Cartesian: refactor README.rst (#796)
GridTools/gt4py: README.rst

GT4Py: GridTools for Python
===========================

Python library for generating high-performance implementations of
stencil kernels from a domain-specific language (DSL).

|tox| |format|

.. |tox| image:: https://github.com/GridTools/gt4py/workflows/Tox%20(CPU%20only)/badge.svg?event=schedule
   :alt:
.. |format| image:: https://github.com/GridTools/gt4py/workflows/Formatting%20&%20compliance/badge.svg?branch=master
   :alt:

⚡️ Quick Start
--------------

GT4Py uses the standard Python packaging method, and can be installed
using `pip`.
However, it is not yet released on PyPI, so users have to point to the
git repository to install it.

As always, it is recommended to install the package in a virtual

> environment.

Author: I think this is an old diff. I don't see that in the code any longer.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ git clone https://github.com/GridTools/gt4py.git && cd gt4py
    $ python -m venv venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    $ pip install --upgrade setuptools wheel pip
    # For the CUDA backends add the '[cudaXX]' optional dependency
    $ pip install -e ./[cuda11]

There are notebooks in the ``examples/`` directory that can be run using IPython
notebooks on Jupyter.

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install jupyterlab
   $ jupyter-lab

There are two options to run the unit and integration tests in ``tests/``:

1. Use tox: ``pip install tox && tox -r -e py38-all-cpu``.
2. Install the development requirements: ``pip install -r requirements-dev.txt``,
   then ``pytest`` can execute the tests directly.

📖 Description
--------------

GT4Py is a Python library for expressing finite-difference stencils
related to weather and climate modeling using a high-level

> DSL using Python functions.

Reviewer: I'm not sure if "using Python functions" is helpful here. python-embeded DSL is what we usually write, though that may also be a meaningless term outside of our bubble :thinking:

Author: I'm also not sure gtscript is an embedded DSL, at least by this definition `The embedded DSL inherits the generic language constructs of its host language - sequencing, conditionals, iteration, functions, etc. - and adds domain-specific primitives that allow programmers to work at a much higher level of abstraction. Multiple EDSLs can easily be combined into a single program and a programmer can use the facilities of the host language to extend the existing DSLs or use them to build an even higher level DSL.` ([here](http://wiki.c2.com/?EmbeddedDomainSpecificLanguage)).

Reviewer 2: I tend to agree with Johann on the embedded DSL. GridTools C++ is clearly an embedded DSL because it is just C++ and you can use C++ in every place. GTScript is not an embedded DSL because you cannot use normal Python code in a GTScript piece. I'd say it's a *DSL embedded in Python*.

> DSL using Python functions.

Author: I think this is an old diff. I don't see that in the code any longer.

These functions are compiled by the framework into high-performance
implementations for CPUs and GPUs.

The DSL expresses the stencils using the parallel model from the

> `GridTools C++ Framework <https://github.com/GridTools/gridtools>`__,

Reviewer: The parallel model is actually slightly different: https://github.com/GridTools/concepts/blob/master/GTScript-Parallel-model.md

and uses it, as well as other backends, for optimized code generation.
In this Cartesian parallel model there are always three dimensions,
and the vertical (``K``) is treated separately from the horizontal axes
(``I``, ``J``), which are iterated over in parallel.

The *gtscript* DSL expresses Cartesian offsets from a center index, as it

> would be written algorithmically.

Reviewer: I don't understand what "as it would be written algorithmically" means here.

Author: Maybe "mathematically" is better. I meant the getitem args are like the subscript in math.

List of these stencil *statements* form *computations*, and can be specialized
in the vertical index to account for boundaries, or accumulate fields.

In order to execute stencils, arrays are required.
For this, GT4Py has functions which create storages for the given stencil backend.
The following backends are supported:

- ``numpy``: Pure-Python backend
- ``gt:cpu_ifirst``: GridTools C++ CPU backend using ``I``-first data ordering
- ``gt:cpu_kfirst``: GridTools C++ CPU backend using ``K``-first data ordering
- ``gt:gpu``: GridTools backend for CUDA

> - ``cuda``: CUDA backend minimally using utilities from GridTools

Reviewer: Some love for dace? :D

Author: Yes, we should make sure those are added before merging. I consider this PR still quite far from mergable, so there's time :)

📖 Description
--------------

GT4Py is a Python library for expressing computational motifs as found in weather and climate applications.
These computations are expressed in a domain specific language (GTScript) which is translated to high-performance implementations for CPUs and GPUs.

The DSL expresses computations on a 3-dimensional Cartesian grid.
The horizontal axes (``I``, ``J``) are always computed in parallel, while the vertical (``K``) can be iterated in sequential, forward or backward, order. Cartesian offsets are expressed relative to a center index.

> In addition, GT4Py provides functions to create storages (arrays) with memory layout suited for a particular backend.

Reviewer: Outdated :sunglasses: 
```suggestion
In addition, GT4Py provides functions to allocate arrays with memory layout suited for a particular backend.
```

path, or a custom version is desired, then a couple configuration
environment variables will allow the compiler to use them:

> - ``GT2_INCLUDE_PATH``: Path to the GridTools installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``GT_INCLUDE_PATH``: Path to the GridTools installation.
```
